Testing, 1, 2, 3, 4, testing April, no, May 1.
Testing some more, 4, 3, 2, 1, 4, 3, 2, 1 on May 1.
Test it, 1, 2, 3, 4, testing, testing, 1, 2, 3.
Okay, you want me to say the same thing or is this all right?
That's enough.
This is May the first and I have the pleasure and honor of chatting with Forrest Lane, the president of the student body or student association?
That's correct, student body.
Student body of Texas A&M for the academic year 2000 and 2001.
Forrest, to describe yourself, to introduce yourself to anybody who might listen to this tape or read the transcription,
Tell about yourself before you got here.
Where'd you grow up?
What did mom and dad do?
Where'd you go to high school?
Introduce yourself.
Okay.
I'm from, originally from San Antonio, Texas.
I moved there in, I guess probably right about the start of high school.
So before then I lived in Oklahoma.
So not a native Texan, so to speak.
And I have four brothers and sisters, so a total of five.
And nobody in my family has really gone to college like right out of high school.
Certainly my mom and my grandfather went in their 30s at night school and stuff like that in order to accomplish their degree.
But never anyone that's gone through A&M or gone through a full university like that.
So kind of a new experience for me.
Which high school?
I went to Churchill in San Antonio.
Churchill.
How many in that senior class?
Oh, probably something around 700, 650, 700.
And where were you in your class?
Top 25 percent.
I don't know where in that top 25 percent, but somewhere.
All right, one of the very important questions.
Why did you attend A&M?
Why here instead of some other place?
Oh, I don't know.
I think it really was one of those foolish reasons to stay here for a girlfriend that was going to be close in town.
So I decided to come here.
A friend said, hey, let's go to A&M, and it'll be a good time, and let's join the Corps.
And I didn't know anything about it, so I said, okay, sounds like fun, and did that.
Although, of course, she dumped me about three months later, so I don't know how worthwhile it was, but I've enjoyed it since.
It was a good mistake.
Did you come to visit before coming to enroll?
I showed up on registration, but not before then.
Did you go to fish camp?
Yes.
How important?
What was fish camp for you?
Well, first time I'd ever seen any of these crazy wildcatting things and Aggie traditions.
So I think for me it was a good time for me to understand what the world was going on at this place.
I didn't have any clue, and it was good.
The energy and atmosphere was there, and I think it certainly made it a lot less scary of a place to come when you're starting out.
Did it help to build friendship and bonding?
Oh, absolutely.
I mean, some of those friendships change over the years.
Some people you stay in touch with and some people you don't.
But, you know, nonetheless, at least the first couple of weeks, months, whatever it may be, at least you have somebody you know and somebody you can stay in touch with.
When you came to enroll, how did you get here?
What did you bring with you in terms of gear and stuff?
Enrolling or when I actually showed up?
When you actually showed up?
When I actually showed up, I had a cardboard box, one of those moving boxes, probably about three feet tall, and that's all I had, the back seat of a truck.
So some clothes, some t-shirts, and didn't need much since I was going in the Corps, and just lights, some general things, nothing really, nothing very much at all.
In fact, sometimes I wonder,
how I started with so much and now I have so much to move I can't get it out of here, but it was fun.
And that was the fall of?
Fall of 96.
96.
And what kind of truck did you come in?
Well, I came in my grandfather's Cadillac, so it was a... It wasn't a truck.
No, it sure wasn't, but it was... Was it yours to use after you got here?
No.
I didn't have a car when I came here.
Didn't get a car until my sophomore year.
Do you remember what that first year's registration cost?
I'm not sure.
Probably...
Tuition's not very expensive, I would say, compared to other universities.
It's probably somewhere between 1,000 and 1,500, depending on the number of semester or number of credit hours you're registering for.
Most expensive is probably the fees and the living expenses.
And since I lived on campus, all that was under one bill.
And so that was definitely much more expensive than the actual tuition.
You don't remember what that total bill was?
For the semester, probably $3,000, $3,500.
And did you earn any of that?
Did your family pay it?
The family paid some of it.
Some of it was from savings.
Some of it was from scholarships.
It just kind of varied.
And as you look back, you, did A&M win out as to where you would go over any other institution or were you, did you even think about any other place?
No, I did.
I looked at, I guess, nine other schools, eight, nine other schools.
Most of them weren't in Texas.
Most of them were outside.
So would I have come to this place knowing what I know now?
Of course I would.
I've enjoyed it, and it's been a great part of my life.
So certainly I would have come here fully knowing everything else that's happened.
Did A&M do a good job trying to recruit you after you indicated an interest?
Actually, I'll be honest with you.
I really didn't have much recruiting, which compared to some of my other friends said that they
You know, did have some recruiting, whether it was the Corps or something else, scholastic reasons that brought them here.
But no, I really didn't.
Nobody called me.
I just submitted my application, got accepted, and that was that.
Nobody ever made any phone calls.
You came in your grandfather's car.
Who else came in that car?
Just me and him.
Just me and him who showed up.
Who, what advice did he or your parents or older siblings give you as your beginning?
What did they say?
I don't think anybody really had much advice except don't screw up.
I don't know.
You know, I'm the oldest so it's not, the younger ones certainly can't really give too much advice.
And then the older ones, this is a new experience for them too.
They never really sent anybody to school at 18 years old to college.
So I think a lot of that has been a learning experience for them too.
But there was nothing that where mom or dad said, don't you dare flunk out, don't you?
There was nothing like that?
I don't know.
My family's got some crazy stories in it, so I think they figured I couldn't do too much to top them, and if they didn't tell me, I might not do it then, so.
Did any, was there any key teacher or counselor back in high school that...
help prepare you for college, advise you?
I can't say there was one person that necessarily prepared me for college.
There were always a couple of teachers that would help and get you interested in some things outside just the typical high school thinking and encourage you to do something with it.
And so that was exciting.
And I think one of those was a government teacher, and she did a lot for me.
So I think that kind of excited me to get interested in that.
But I had a couple of them.
There was also, I guess, a chemistry teacher that I had and wound up being, I guess, one of her assistants in the senior year high school.
And she did a lot to help me get ready and just to encourage me to go out there and pursue some of those goals, whatever they may be.
Did they or anyone else help you believe that A&M had a high credibility status, a high quality, an eminence?
The person I got that the most from was a man by the name of Cliff Dugas, who works at the MSC now, didn't at the time.
But we went to church together and did things in high school.
He lived in San Antonio, but went to a rivalry across the street.
So it was interesting, but he was always bragging about this place.
And there were a few people, but nobody I really necessarily closely knew very much.
Did you know what your major was going to be?
Well I first got accepted with a scholarship in biochemistry only to say that there's no way in the world I'm going to do that and didn't tell my parents and changed it to political science and I'm glad I didn't tell them they probably would have been more concerned at the time but and now they're not they're not too concerned about it but I changed it kind of without them knowing that and did it before I got up here and so that's what I started out as.
How did you how did you get your first
semester of classes selected.
How did you register that first time?
I just figured I'd take the classes somewhat decent and I had no idea what to expect in terms of teachers and teacher quality or any of that so I kind of just took a
really just a shot in the dark at the ones that I thought I might do the best at.
Did you make those selections before you left home or did you come up here to pre-register?
I came up here when I registered and looked at the book the night before.
We had to go and register.
I think registration was on the, I think it's the third day or fourth day.
I'm not sure how long that program is.
It's three or four days, but it was on the last day.
So you registered right before you left to go back home.
Was that process pretty efficient?
I thought it was.
It was still...
Tough to understand what was going on.
It was much more academically focused versus understanding the traditions and all the other things that encompassed A&M.
So that made it a little bit more difficult to understand in terms of what you're really getting into.
But I thought the process was good.
Okay, you arrive in this Cadillac.
Did you know what outfit you were going to be in when you got to campus that day?
I did.
I registered for an outfit K-1, and there was a guy that I knew in high school, not very well, but he was the only person I knew that was in the Corps and was in that outfit and said, you know, that's the outfit you need to come into.
So I hadn't seen him in six months before I showed up, and I only had seen him once a year before that.
It was the only place I knew to go, and that's what I signed up to do.
Describe what it was like as you're taking your stuff into that dormitory and you're finding a room.
Describe beginning in the Corps.
Well, they found a room for me very quickly.
I guess I don't know how long the process of coming in for Freshman Orientation Week has been.
You go through Duncan and do the different registration process they've got there.
keeps getting more and more advanced every year but and then they had already a dorm lined out a room for you and everything else like that when you got there so there wasn't too much figuring out you just had to go where you were directed but I think it was the first time I saw my friend again six months and and this time he was on the other end of it being a sophomore and so at first I thought it was funny when I saw him and he was trying to be mean and I got a big kick out of it only to get in trouble about five minutes after that and that's the way the freshman year started off so
Describe being introduced to core traditionalism practices.
I had to approach it with a sense of humor because I had no idea what I was getting into and there was this obviously this class that was going to be the disciplinarians without question and I think they made that pretty clear from the first time you've met them so I just I didn't know what I was expecting and what was serious and what wasn't and it didn't take me very long to figure out what was serious but but
But it was interesting.
Looking back on that first, those first few days and nights, was there anything that occurred that shouldn't have?
I don't know if anything occurred.
I think I'd heard a story of a guy who got so bothered by all the sophomores, they would walk up and down the hall just
I guess we thought they were walking up and down all night long because they had taps on the bottom of their shoes.
And I think I found out when I came back to do it my sophomore year, they only did it for about a half hour, but you were so tired you fell asleep really quickly.
And they'd get up about a half hour before us.
But I think one of the freshmen got so bothered by that and so bothered by the whole
just I guess being under a different kind of atmosphere that he jumped out of his window, took all the stuff and ran home that night.
So I don't know.
I never saw him and everybody was pretty sure that that happened.
Did that first few days and nights, did you see a paddle ever used?
No, I can't say I did.
Nobody ever brought it up.
Everybody that during that first week thought, oh my gosh, this is so tough.
But I think the tough guy, it got tougher the further on you went.
The first week when I look back at it was actually the easiest.
It just was different.
And your official lady, how did you describe getting acquainted with him and so forth?
I don't know how to really describe him except I pretty much gave him about two or three weeks to make it and he was out.
He was a really nice guy and he's still a good friend.
But he came in that first evening and he just was very shy, very quiet.
Didn't look like he really wanted to be there, wasn't really sure if that's what he wanted to do.
Very anal, had his highlighters for his books or whatever, color coordinated from darkest to lightest in his desk drawer, and I thought, oh my gosh, if this is what's to come, I have no idea.
He, over the course of a year, developed so much personality from being in that and did a great job and stayed in and did well for himself.
So he stayed in?
He did.
I just didn't expect him to when he first showed up.
Describe what was in that room your freshman year.
Describe the freshman room in modern times.
I don't know if it from my understanding I don't know if it really changed all that much from what it was 50 years ago and the dorms are that old and haven't really been renovated so there's not too much difference but it bunk beds and I think dependent the room opens up with a little bit larger side of the room either on the left or the right depending on which dorm it is but anyway they the bunk beds would be placed in that corner and there were two desks and two dressers and
That was about it.
I don't think there was really else mattresses on there, but everything else you had to furnish.
And, of course, we weren't really allowed to furnish much in freshman year, so we didn't have a whole lot.
But you could bring in a footlocker, so both of us had a footlocker.
And that was pretty much all that was in there.
Now here I'm about to ask a naive question.
Could you have a keyboard and a computer?
Yes, you could have a keyboard and a computer.
Oh, okay.
You could bring that.
Did both of you have one?
He had one, I didn't.
I wound up later getting one, so then I think somewhere in the middle of the year we both had one.
No, you could bring up anything that was for academic purposes.
You just couldn't bring up any kind of television or radio or anything like that.
And no mini refrigerator?
No.
No electric coffee pot and all that?
No, couldn't have any of that stuff, so.
Were it curtains, rug?
No, there was nothing.
It was just a tile floor.
There wasn't anything else to it.
No curtains.
There was obviously blinds that were part of the room, but there wasn't anything that we had furnished.
How did you get acquainted with the entire campus geographically?
Did you go exploring?
No, there wasn't really a lot of time to go exploring.
If you weren't going to class, they wanted you to be back in the dorm.
So there wasn't a lot of time to do that.
I think really you just learn from going to your different classes, from going to different activities.
And after a while, I mean, even though it's a big campus, it doesn't become quite as big.
And people were always helping to show you where things were.
So it wasn't too difficult to find your way around.
And how did you learn the routine in the chai hall?
The nicknames and... Very quickly because you had to.
Sophomores that were with us always insisted that we know that and there was always repercussions for not.
So it didn't take long to figure out you needed to know what they told you you needed to know.
And it was always on a progressive scale.
You didn't have to know it all at once.
Certainly by minute middle of the fall semester you had to know all of that.
And did you all ask for food with all of the appropriate Aggie nicknames?
We did.
I think some outfits had some different routines that they had but my outfit did do that and we had to always had to know the names of or the handles of the chow.
You couldn't
You couldn't eat your chow unless you knew what the name of your chow was, so we always had to do that.
Were there cush questions in your outfit?
Sometimes there were, sometimes there weren't.
Not as much as from what I recall from former students, but we still didn't.
Do you have a favorite cush question to share?
Oh, I don't know.
I'm not sure if we, you know, I think there was, I'm trying to remember what it was.
You know, even though it's a couple of years ago, you forget because you're not really that bothered by it anymore.
I think we used to ask, I think when the flag flew, I'm trying to remember how many stars were on the flag.
On the Texas flag?
Right.
So, you know, on the Texas flag.
So, you know, of course, the freshman would say, one.
You'd say, no, it's two.
It's on both sides.
And then, of course, you'd ask him again, and then he'd say, two.
And you'd say, no, it's one solid star right through both flags.
So it was a no-win question, but it was fun to ask.
All right, that first fall, did you have some courses and or some instructors that now you realize were important to you?
How important was that first fall academically?
Probably was my worst semester academically.
It was a little bit challenging just because you had to get used to some of the different pace of the courses and what they were requiring.
That first semester, I think I've kind of found, along with everybody else, that you don't always necessarily get the best quality teachers when you first show up.
A lot of them are graduate students and they recognize that everybody really just has to take those classes.
It's not necessarily what they want to do.
So you don't necessarily get some of the PhDs or the doctors you'll get later on that know a little bit more about what they're talking about and are obviously a lot more interested in what you're doing.
So I think everybody just wants to get through the first couple of hard classes and then move into the stuff they really enjoy.
As you look back, were some of those sections too large in number of students?
I think so.
Some of them are as large as 400.
I think some people in business said that I think they were maybe as close as 500 in some sections, which is,
I think it's too many.
I think you could pretty much rest assured that most of your classes the first year were going to be at least 100 people, unless maybe your English courses, which were, I think, maybe 25 or 30 people in that.
But most of them were pretty large, and then they quickly sized down from there.
Describe a typical day for you, a typical class day.
You got up at about what time, went to chow, went to class.
Go from getting up to going to sleep.
Well, usually, you know, depending on what you had to do that morning, we got up somewhere between 5.30, 5.45.
Usually ran in the morning, but some mornings there were inspections, so sometimes you had to get up a little bit earlier.
But you had to be out by 6 o'clock in the morning so we could turn on the lights and wake up the upperclassmen.
do the regular chores that you had to get into doing, blow and call, which consisted of telling the food that was being served that day and temperature and weather and all the other things the upperclassmen wanted to know.
And sometimes they had extras they wanted you to throw in there.
So that went on for about 30 minutes or so.
Then we usually went out to formation about 630.
I think it actually was held at 640, but you were outside by 630.
We'd go through Reveille, and then we'd march into Chow, and I think we were in and out of there probably.
I think we were on our way back by no later than 7-15, 7-10, 7-15.
And we'd come back to the dorm.
Of course, all the sophomores' levels left before us, and upperclassmen would bring us back.
So usually got to...
horse around and do some good bull on the way back because you didn't have anybody to really do anything to you.
And then you came back and usually there was something they always wanted to discipline you for when you came back, but after that,
You know, they quickly tried to get you out to class for everybody that had 8 o'clock.
And then you went to your classes.
I guess sometimes there were other chores if you didn't have 8 o'clock classes.
Delivering battalions to upperclassmen or maybe something needed to be done out in the hall or cleaning up the hall or different just remedial chores.
But otherwise you went to your class.
I think we all tried to eat lunch.
one or two times during the day.
We didn't have any formation or anything like that.
I know that some of the earlier classes used to have a formation, lunchtime formation.
I think there were, I'm not sure how many formations there were, but most people typically tend to eat between one to two times.
I think it was either 11.30 or 12.30.
But you all didn't eat as an outfit?
Not as an entire outfit.
Did we sit with our outfit, those that were eating lunch at that particular time?
Yes.
We sat down with them.
Otherwise we didn't eat as an entire outfit like we did in the morning.
And finished after classes for the day and then you'd come back and usually there was some core activity between
starting about four o'clock in the afternoon until about six or so such as what kind of thing could be inspections sometimes inspections maybe you're running maybe you're playing football with your maybe they had an intramural game that you needed to play um so it varied sometimes it was more serious sometimes it was a lot of fun and usually that changed the year went on and got later too people a lot a lot more of it was fun activities
Was your outfit highly concerned about intramurals?
We were pretty concerned about intramurals.
I think we took it pretty serious.
Not as much as some other outfits, but I would say we were probably in the top five of intramurals.
And most of the men in your, well, men and women majored in what?
What kind of subjects?
I think it was all across the board.
My outfit was originally an engineering outfit.
That's when it was created, I think it started in 1969.
So that's originally what it was.
Mine's one of the few outfits that's still all male that's left, so there's actually not women in it.
And I think most people were engineering or agriculture simply because those were the two biggest majors on campus.
But there were certainly others, but I think it got a lot smaller from there.
If you had any spare time unscheduled in the afternoon, what did you do with that time?
I think at first everybody usually would come back to the dorm just because you didn't know if there was something you had to do.
And then as you started figuring out the game a little bit more, a lot of times it didn't come back and we either went to go grab a bite to eat someplace.
Where?
I don't know, sometimes maybe we'd run to
I don't know, some of the shops, I think they had, there's some shops over on George Bush at Jason's Deli and stuff like that.
We'd run over there, go visit one of our friends, brothers or sisters that was living off campus, go try to catch some television program or just horse around a little bit and run some errands.
But it was also fun to be in the dorm too because everybody was there and you knew everybody and you lived with them 24 hours a day.
You know, there was a lot of fun to being in the dorm that you didn't always catch when you were missing it.
Did you make some important friendships that first semester?
Oh, I think so.
I mean, when you live with somebody, like I said, 24 hours a day, you know, you learn a lot about people very quickly.
So, you know, you've made a lot of good friendships and ones that I think probably would have taken me longer to develop other places.
You know, certainly everybody develops their friendships differently.
Then in the evening, come back for chow, fall in, what would you do?
Was the evening chow routine different?
No, it was pretty much the same thing, just a different time, I think, although it was pretty close.
I think it was 6.30, maybe instead of 6.40.
I don't know if that really mattered, but it was the same process, being out there about 10 minutes early and blowing calls about a half hour early.
And so it was the same routine coming back.
And then we would come back after evening chow, I think,
called a quarter, started somewhere around 7 or 7.30, and it varied from year to year.
Sometimes it moved from formation times to different times, but you're pretty consistently back by 10 or 10.30, or by 7.30, I'm sorry.
After chow, where did you normally go in the evenings?
Stayed in the room and studied.
You had to stay there unless you were going to the library or some study review session or something like that.
How often did you or anybody else that you know go to the library at night?
I think a lot more of us went to the library in the day because it was a good place to sleep.
I don't know how many of us really went there at night.
Sometimes we would.
I think towards the end of the semester we learned on the sixth floor they had a place where you could go watch movies.
So we'd rent out the place for 15 of us and we'd go watch a movie and study in the library.
I'm not sure it really did much for our grades, but it was a lot more entertaining than being in the dorm sometimes.
But then you're back in the dorm by what hour?
You had to be bagged by, I think, 10 o'clock because then usually the lights out were 10.30, 11.
I think it changed once or twice during my four years, but it was pretty consistently between 10.30 and 11.
Share some of the reminiscences you had from that first semester about jokes, pranks, good bull.
We did all kinds of things.
I think pranks were played.
during my first two years, and we did towards the last two years, usually because you had other things you were worried about, more focused on school or girlfriends or whatever.
So you didn't quite do as much of it, I don't think, unless you were one of those guys that didn't have anything else to do.
We did everything from put tuna fish in the phones and the receivers in the bottoms of the phones and waited for them to figure it out.
We used to drop things down the air vents up in the corners, take fishing line and tie it around the vents so you couldn't see it and drop it down because I think the
the air vent went about six feet, seven feet tall.
So if you could get it halfway, you couldn't really reach up and you couldn't really reach down.
So we'd leave things in there for them to figure out what was there.
We'd do all kinds of things.
I think we'd sometimes go in the middle of the night, put shaving cream on the top receiver of the phone, call them, and then let them pick them up so they'd go in their ears.
That was always fun.
So it was different.
As you look back, do you remember any good bull that you or your friends were involved in
which in fact was ill-advised, was harmful, shouldn't have done it.
Most of the things we did I don't think were really harmful.
I mean, sometimes people had a habit of doing that.
I don't really recall a lot of activities that were really harmful.
Did we do a lot of pranks?
Yes.
You know, I know during Ewok and some other times people would get tied up and put in different places, but it was never very long and nobody was really, I don't think anybody was ever put in serious harm.
So I can't really recall any instances like that.
Nobody was left outside or anything like that in the middle of the night, and I can't really recall anything like that.
Did you ever go down into any of the tunnels, the steam tunnels?
I didn't, but there were certainly some friends that did, and I think they got, I don't know how many hours of community service they got.
You think you're supposed to get expelled from doing that, I think.
Really?
Oh, I didn't know that.
That's what my understanding is, but there were some of them that went down there, and of course they came up just in time for the cops to catch them as they were coming out.
So I think, I don't know what they really have to monitor it down there, but I think the rumor is there's sensors so they know when people are down there.
I don't know if that's true or not, but certainly I think it's kept a lot of people from going down there just because the repercussions for going down there are so serious.
As you went to class, what did you soon learn
were the guidelines for class attendance and behavior in class?
It varied from teacher to teacher.
I saw everything from some guys would go to their class, and even some upper classmen, they'd show up with their golf clubs and ask if they were taking attendance that day, and if they weren't, they'd go off to the golf course and play golf.
And then other places were very strict.
You know, other teachers, I had another teacher that, you know, if you had to have any classes that you needed to miss,
throughout the course of the semester.
You had to let her know prior to the end of the first week.
Other than that, her class took precedence over anything else.
So it really varied from teacher to teacher.
You just had to, after a while, I think you find out which teachers are more lenient and which are less, and sometimes people shape their classes around that.
Was anybody checking the roll every day from the teachers?
Some people did.
Some people checked the roll.
Other people felt that that was a little childish and it was your responsibility.
They knew that that meant people would skip sometimes, but then, you know, they were also less willing to change your grades at the end of the semester if there was any kind of situation that you felt they needed to look in.
Now, you said that first year was not your, that first semester and all was not your best semester academically.
That's right.
When did you first start getting those grades in or those tests?
Describe that.
Well, the first time I got grades in the first semester?
Oh, I, the classes I were taking were, weren't necessarily hard.
I think I just didn't,
know the quality of the things that they were looking for.
So they were varied.
Sometimes I'd get a good A back, and then a lot of times I'd get some Ds and Fs, and you don't know what to expect.
And since there's so fewer tests and fewer homeworks, and some people don't even have any kind of homework assignments that, you know, you get a little bit nervous about how do I pull that grade up.
But you quickly figure out how to do that and how to get used to their tests and how to study for them.